Adds better type narrowing docs (#11088)
python/mypy: docs/source/type_narrowing.rst

.. _type-narrowing:

Type narrowing
==============

This section is dedicated to  several type narrowing

> techniques which are supported by Mypy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
techniques which are supported by mypy.
```

> What is type narrowing?
> It is an operation of telling type checking that some
> broader type is actually more specific.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type narrowing is when you convince a type checker that a broader type is actually more specific, for instance, that an object of type ``Shape`` is actually of the narrower type ``Square``.
```

Type narrowing expressions
--------------------------

The simplest way to narrow a type is to use one of the supported expressions:

> - :py:func:`type` like in ``type(obj) is int`` will narrow ``obj`` to have ``int`` type
> - :py:func:`isinstance` like in ``isinstance(obj, float)`` will narrow ``obj`` to have ``float`` type
> - :py:func:`issubclass` like in ``issubclass(cls, MyClass)`` will narrow ``cls`` to be ``Type[MyClass]``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :py:func:`isinstance` like in ``isinstance(obj, float)`` will narrow ``obj`` to have ``float`` type
- :py:func:`issubclass` like in ``issubclass(cls, MyClass)`` will narrow ``cls`` to be ``Type[MyClass]``
- :py:func:`type` like in ``type(obj) is int`` will narrow ``obj`` to have ``int`` type
```

> It is important to understand that type narrowing happens in a specific context.
> It can be a single ``if`` branch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type narrowing is contextual. For example, based on the condition, mypy will narrow an expression only within an ``if`` branch:
```

.. code-block:: python

  def function(arg: object):
      if isinstance(arg, int):

>           # Type is narrowed for this ``if`` branch context only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # Type is narrowed within the ``if`` branch only
```

          reveal_type(arg)  # Revealed type: "builtins.int"
      elif isinstance(arg, str) or isinstance(arg, bool):

>           # This ``if`` branch has new context for narrowing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # Type is narrowed differently within this ``elif`` branch:
```

          reveal_type(arg)  # Revealed type: "builtins.str | builtins.bool"

>           # Contexts can be nested:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # Subsequent narrowing operations will narrow the type further
```

          if isinstance(arg, bool):
              reveal_type(arg)  # Revealed type: "builtins.bool"

>       # In the main context type won't be changed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Back outside of the ``if`` statement, the type isn't narrowed:
```

      reveal_type(arg)  # Revealed type: "builtins.object"

> We can also use reverse logic as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mypy understands the implications `return` or exception raising can have for what type an object could be:
```

.. code-block:: python

  def function(arg: int | str):
      if isinstance(arg, int):
          return

      # `arg` can't be `int` at this point:
      reveal_type(arg)  # Revealed type: "builtins.str"

We can also use ``assert`` to narrow types in the same context:

.. code-block:: python

  def function(arg: Any):
      assert isinstance(arg, int)
      reveal_type(arg)  # Revealed type: "builtins.int"

Mypy can also use :py:func:`issubclass`
for better type inference when working with types and metaclasses:

.. code-block:: python

   class MyCalcMeta(type):
       @classmethod
       def calc(cls) -> int:
           ...

   def f(o: object) -> None:
       t = type(o)  # We must use a variable here
       reveal_type(t)  # Revealed type is "builtins.type"

       if issubtype(t, MyCalcMeta):  # `issubtype(type(o), MyCalcMeta)` won't work
           reveal_type(t)  # Revealed type is "Type[MyCalcMeta]"
           t.calc()  # Okay

.. note::

>   Narrowing type for some impossible state will be treated as an error.

Reviewer: This isn't generally true, e.g. not even with `--strict`, I think you need `--warn-unreachable` for this.

Reviewer: Could also maybe mention the `assert_never` trick here though
